Video Experience
-----------------------------

	The intial step for setting up any sort of video was looking at vga and 
bios mode setting. I the looked at VESA mode setting and decided that VBE, the 
vesa spec, had everything that I would need. 

Steps:
-----------------------------
1) I set the video mode to a mode with the specs I wanted.

2) I obtain the vesa mode info and the vga mode info and store them in the 
	lower one meg of memory.
	
3) Then we switch to protected mode and access the static address in the lower
	one meg of memory.
	
4) The next fonction of mine that gets run is win_man_init.
	i) This function initializes vga ang GL as well as setup all of the memory
		address required to do any kind of graphics.
		
5) From here it was all writing library function to enable the user programs 
	to put things on the screen.

I found steps 1 through 3 hard to figure out, beyond step 3 I enjoyed designing
the window manager and figureing out how to render text. This was the easy part
but at the same time the fun part, because they were puzzles I knew how to fix.

Basic design thoughts:
-----------------------------
When designing the window manager I wanted to make a design that lended itself
to later expansion. I set it up so that every user program got its own buffer,
and its own information block. This allowed me to just keep building features 
since anything I added would automatically be in a central location as well as 
be easy to change. Having the sperate buffers and information blocks allowed me
to plan for moving windows. All I would need to do would be add a Z position or
clip plane and then also add an X and Y position. This would allow me to manage
the mouse clicks and drawing the top window as simple as some trivial math.

Some feature that I wanted but couldn't get to:
-----------------------------
1) Create an open_gl like state machine.
2) Rebuild my GL to remember the things drawn, allowing redrawing and much more
3) Windows
4) Mouse integration ( this was a limitation with the first mouse driver)

Synopsis:
-----------------------------
All in all I realy enjoyed this class. I think that given more time working on
on it I could get a lot of really awesome feature done. I felt like this class
was pretty perfect. The only thing that might be interesting is if there was a
required early release demo. maybe mid quarter. It would force people to spend
more time on the project early on in the quarter.

Thanks,
-Gideon Williams
