Virtual Memory Overview Sean McDermott

In virtual memory there three separate parts. The parts are vmem. vmemL2,
and vmem_isr.

Vmem is intended to be low level management of pages. In this part you will
find functions to find free 4KB pages 4MB, and free reserve pages that map
into everyone's page directories. Vmem is also in charge of mapping the first
page directory table as an identity mapped. The first 4MB needs to mapped
into memory for bios calls and kernel access. The next 4MB are used the
addresses for the bitmap, in which bits are used to find free pages in memory.

VmemL2 job is to take control of vmem functions to make page directory table,
page tables, and pages. Also vmemL2 also has the responsibility of freeing
page table directory that are no longer need.

Vmem_isr was originally intended to be built on for features like copy-on-write
and dynamically allocating more space. Unfortunately these features were cut
based on time and to cut down on potential problem when merging code with
group members. Vmem_isr is used more like a memory error catcher with any
address that Page Faults or General Protection Faults not in an isr are caught,

Although not currently used in this project there is a module called vmem_ref
which can do counting on physical addresses. This was intended to facilitate
copy-on-write. It would be increased whenever a page was being shared and
decrease when a program tried to write to it and it's page was replaced or
granted write permission.

Also there are assembly function in all three parts of the virtual memory
modules. All of the implementation of these are stored in vmemA.S. This
was done so that assembly code would be in one place and not inlined in the
virtual memory code.

Major Data Structures Used: Page Table Directory - (must be excately know
format) (Please see http://wiki.osdev.org/Paging ) Page Table - (must be
excately know format) (Please see http://wiki.osdev.org/Paging ) Bitmap -
bits marked as 1 to signified the corresponding 4kb address was in use,
and 0 to say it was being used.  Reference Counting array - This structure
was based off of flags see in the Page Table Directory. This was also done
to keep the directory small. Each entry is only one word (32 bits).

Problems Encountered in Virtual Memory Endless no feedback triple faults. These
required time to figure where and how to stop before it faulted.  Merging with
group members who were used to accessing memory in a flat model.  Being careful
not to cause a page fault by trying to populate page directories and page
tables whose address are out of map range.  Running out of time to implement
feature like malloc, copy-on-write, and invalidating memory address zero.



